A New Automatic Method to Identify Galaxy Mergers I. Description and
  Application to the STAGES Survey
We present an automatic method to identify galaxy mergers using the
morphological information contained in the residual images of galaxies after
the subtraction of a Sersic model. The removal of the bulk signal from the host
galaxy light is done with the aim of detecting the fainter minor mergers. The
specific morphological parameters that are used in the merger diagnostic
suggested here are the Residual Flux Fraction and the asymmetry of the
residuals. The new diagnostic has been calibrated and optimized so that the
resulting merger sample is very complete. However, the contamination by
non-mergers is also high. If the same optimization method is adopted for
combinations of other structural parameters such as the CAS system, the merger
indicator we introduce yields merger samples of equal or higher statistical
quality than the samples obtained through the use of other structural
parameters. We explore the ability of the method presented here to select minor
mergers by identifying a sample of visually classified mergers that would not
have been picked up by the use of the CAS system, when using its usual limits.
Given the low prevalence of mergers among the general population of galaxies
and the optimization used here, we find that the merger diagnostic introduced
in this work is best used as a negative merger test, i.e., it is very effective
at selecting non-merging galaxies. As with all the currently available
automatic methods, the sample of merger candidates selected is contaminated by
non-mergers, and further steps are needed to produce a clean sample. This
merger diagnostic has been developed using the HST/ACS F606W images of the
A901/02 cluster (z=0.165) obtained by the STAGES team. In particular, we have
focused on a mass and magnitude limited sample (log M/M_{O}>9.0,
R_{Vega}<23.5mag)) which includes 905 cluster galaxies and 655 field galaxies
of all morphological types.