Photo-centric variability of quasars caused by variations in their inner
  structure: Consequences on Gaia measurements
We study the photocenter position variability due to variations in the quasar
inner structure. We consider variability in the accretion disk emissivity and
torus structure variability due to different illumination by the central
source. We discuss possible detection of these effects by Gaia. Observations of
the photocenter variability in two AGNs, SDSS J121855+020002 and SDSS
J162011+1724327 have been reported and discussed. With investigation of the
variations in the quasar inner structure we explore how much this effect can
affect the position determination and whether it can be (or not) detected with
Gaia mission. We used (a) a model of a relativistic disk, including the
perturbation that can increase brightness of a part of the disk, and
consequently offset the photocenter position, and (b) a model of a dusty torus
which absorbs and re-emits the incoming radiation from accretion disk. We
estimated the value of the photocenter offset due to these two effects. We
found that perturbations in the inner structure can significantly offset the
photocenter. It depends on the characteristics of perturbation and accretion
disk and structure of the torus. In the case of two considered QSOs the
observed photocenter offsets cannot be explained by variations in the accretion
disk and other effects should be considered. We discussed possibility of
exploding stars very close to the AGN source, and also possibility that there
are two variable sources in the center of these two AGNs that may indicate a
binary super-massive black hole system on a kpc (pc) scale. The Gaia mission
seems to be very perspective, not only for astrometry, but also for exploring
the inner structure of AGNs. We conclude that variations in the quasar inner
structure can affect the observed photocenter (up to several mas). There is a
chance to observe such effect in the case of bright and low-redshifted QSOs.