H2O line mapping at high spatial and spectral resolution - Herschel
  observations of the VLA1623 outflow
Apart from being an important coolant, H2O is known to be a tracer of
high-velocity molecular gas. Recent models predict relatively high abundances
behind interstellar shockwaves. The dynamical and physical conditions of the
H2O emitting gas, however, are not fully understood yet. We aim to determine
the abundance and distribution of H2O, its kinematics and the physical
conditions of the gas responsible for the H2O emission. The observed line
profile shapes help us understand the dynamics in molecular outflows. We mapped
the VLA1623 outflow, in the ground-state transitions of o-H2O, with the HIFI
and PACS instruments. We also present observations of higher energy transitions
of o-H2O and p-H2O obtained with HIFI and PACS towards selected outflow
positions. From comparison with non-LTE radiative transfer calculations, we
estimate the physical parameters of the water emitting regions. The observed
water emission line profiles vary over the mapped area. Spectral features and
components, tracing gas in different excitation conditions, allow us to
constrain the density and temperature of the gas. The H2O emission originates
in a region where temperatures are comparable to that of the warm H2 gas
(T\gtrsim200K). Thus, the H2O emission traces a gas component significantly
warmer than the gas responsible for the low-J CO emission. The H2O column
densities at the CO peak positions are low, i.e. N(H2O) \simeq (0.03-10)x10e14
cm-2. The H2O abundance with respect to H2 in the extended outflow is estimated
at X(H2O)<1x10e-6, significantly lower than what would be expected from most
recent shock models. The H2O emission traces a gas component moving at
relatively high velocity compared to the low-J CO emitting gas. However, other
dynamical quantities such as the momentum rate, energy and mechanical
luminosity are estimated to be the same, independent of the molecular tracer
used, CO or H2O.