Spatially resolved kinematics, galactic wind, and quenching of star
  formation in the luminous infrared galaxy IRAS F11506-3851
We present a multi-wavelength integral field spectroscopic study of the low-z
LIRG IRAS F11506-3851, on the basis of VIMOS and SINFONI (ESO-VLT)
observations. The morphology and the 2D kinematics of the gaseous (neutral and
ionized) and stellar components have been mapped using the NaD doublet, the
H$\alpha$ line, and the near-IR CO(2-0) and CO(3-1) bands. The kinematics of
the ionized gas and the stars are dominated by rotation, with large observed
velocity amplitudes and centrally peaked velocity dispersion maps. The stars
lag behind the warm gas and represent a dynamically hotter system, as indicated
by the observed dynamical ratios. Thanks to these IFS data we have disentangled
the contribution of the stars and the ISM to the NaD feature, finding that it
is dominated by the absorption of neutral gas clouds in the ISM. The neutral
gas 2D kinematics shows a complex structure dominated by two components. On the
one hand, the thick slowly rotating disk lags significantly compared to the
ionized gas and the stars, with an irregular and off-center velocity dispersion
map. On the other hand, a kpc-scale neutral gas outflow is observed along the
semi-minor axis of the galaxy, as revealed by large blueshifted velocities
(30-154 km/s). We derive an outflowing mass rate in neutral gas of about 48
$\dot{M_{\rm w}}$/yr. Although this implies a global mass loading factor of
1.4, the 2D distribution of the ongoing SF suggests a much larger value of mass
loading factor associated with the inner regions (R$<$200 pc), where the
current SF represents only 3 percent of the total. All together these results
strongly suggest that we are witnessing (nuclear) quenching due to SF feedback
in IRAS F11506-3851. However, the relatively large mass of molecular gas
detected in the nuclear region via the H2 1-0 S(1) line suggests that further
episodes of SF may take place again.