A combined IRAM and Herschel/HIFI study of cyano(di)acetylene in Orion
  KL: tentative detection of DC3N
We present a study of cyanoacetylene (HC3N) and cyanodiacetylene (HC5N) in
Orion KL, through observations from two line surveys performed with the IRAM
30m telescope and the HIFI instrument on board the Herschel telescope. The
frequency ranges covered are 80-280 GHz and 480-1906 GHz. We model the observed
lines of HC3N, HC5N, their isotopologues (including DC3N), and vibrational
modes, using a non-LTE radiative transfer code. To investigate the chemical
origin of HC3N and DC3N in Orion KL, we use a time-dependent chemical model. We
detect 40 lines of the ground state of HC3N and 68 lines of its 13C
isotopologues. We also detect 297 lines of six vibrational modes of this
molecule (nu_7, 2nu_7, 3nu_7, nu_6, nu_5, and nu_6+nu_7) and 35 rotational
lines of the ground state of HC5N. We report the first tentative detection of
DC3N in a giant molecular cloud with a DC3N/HC3N abundance ratio of 0.015. We
provide column densities and isotopic and molecular abundances. We also perform
a 2x2" map around Orion IRc2 and we present maps of HC3N lines and maps of
lines of the HC3N vibrational modes nu_6 and nu_7. In addition, a comparison of
our results for HC3N with those in other clouds allows us to derive
correlations between the column density, the FWHM, the mass, and the luminosity
of the clouds. The high column densities of HC3N obtained in the hot core, make
this molecule an excellent tracer of hot and dense gas. In addition, the large
frequency range covered reveals the need to consider a temperature and density
gradient in the hot core in order to obtain better line fits. The high D/H
ratio (comparable to that obtained in cold clouds) that we derive suggests a
deuterium enrichment. Our chemical models indicate that the possible deuterated
HC3N present in Orion KL is formed during the gas-phase. This fact provides new
hints concerning the processes leading to deuteration.