A multifrequency study of the active star forming complex NGC6357. I.
  Interstellar structures linked to the open cluster Pis24
We investigate the distribution of the gas (ionized, neutral atomic and
molecular), and interstellar dust in the complex star forming region NGC6357
with the goal of studying the interplay between the massive stars in the open
cluster Pis24 and the surrounding interstellar matter. Our study of the
distribution of the ionized gas is based on narrow-band Hhalfa, [SII], and
[OIII] images obtained with the Curtis-Schmidt Camera at CTIO, Chile, and on
radio continuum observations at 1465 MHz taken with the VLA with a synthesized
beam of 40 arcsec. The distribution of the molecular gas is analyzed using
12CO(1-0) data obtained with the Nanten radiotelescope, Chile (angular
resolution = 2.7 arcmin). The interstellar dust distribution was studied using
mid-infrared data from the GLIMPSE survey and far-infrared observations from
IRAS. NGC6357 consists of a large ionized shell and a number of smaller optical
nebulosities. The optical, radio continuum, and near- and mid-IR images
delineate the distributions of the ionized gas and interstellar dust in the HII
regions and in previously unknown wind blown bubbles linked to the massive
stars in Pis24 revealing surrounding photodissociation regions. The CO line
observations allowed us to identify the molecular counterparts of the ionized
structures in the complex and to confirm the presence of photodissociation
regions. The action of the WR star HD157504 on the surrounding gas was also
investigated. The molecular mass in the complex is estimated to be (4+/-2)X10^5
Mo. Mean electron densities derived from the radio data suggest electron
densities > 200 cm^-3, indicating that NGC6357 is a complex formed in a region
of high ambient density. The known massive stars in Pis24 and a number of newly
inferred massive stars are mainly responsible for the excitation and
photodissociation of the parental molecular cloud.