Magnetic fields and star formation in low-mass Magellanic-type and
  peculiar galaxies
We investigate how magnetic properties of Magellanic-type and perturbed
objects are related to star-forming activity, galactic type, and mass. We
present radio and magnetic properties of 5 Magellanic-type and 2 peculiar
low-mass galaxies observed at 4.85 and/or 8.35 GHz with the Effelsberg 100-m
telescope. The sample is extended to 17 objects by including 5 Magellanic-type
galaxies and 5 dwarf ones. The radio emission of low-mass galaxies at 4.85/8.35
GHz is closely connected with their optical discs. The strengths of total
magnetic field are within 5-9 \mu G, while the ordered fields reach 1-2 \mu G.
The magnetic field strengths are well correlated with the surface density of
SFR and manifest a power-law relation with an exponent of 0.25 extending a
similar relation found for dwarf galaxies. The production of magnetic energy
per supernova event is similar for all the various galaxies. It constitutes
about 3% of the individual SN energy release. We show that the total magnetic
field energy in galaxies is almost linearly related to the galactic gas mass,
which indicates equipartition of the magnetic energy and the turbulent kinetic
energy of the ISM. The Magellanic-type galaxies fit very well with the
radio-infrared relation constructed for surface brightness of galaxies of
various types, including bright spirals and interacting objects. We found that
the typical far-infrared relation based on luminosity of galaxies is tighter
and steeper but more likely to inherit a partial correlation from a tendency
that larger objects are also more luminous. The thermal fractions, radio
spectral indices, and magnetic field strengths of the Magellanic-type galaxies
are between the values determined for spirals and dwarf galaxies. The confirmed
magnetic field-star formation and radio-infrared relations for low-mass
galaxies point to similar physical processes that must be at work in all
galaxies.