Far-Infrared to Millimeter Astrophysical Dust Emission. II: Comparison
  of the Two-Level Systems (TLS) model with Astronomical Data
In a previous paper we proposed a new model for the emission by amorphous
astronomical dust grains, based on solid-state physics. The model uses a
description of the Disordered Charge Distribution (DCD) combined with the
presence of Two-Level Systems (TLS) defects in the amorphous solid composing
the grains. The goal of this paper is to confront this new model to
astronomical observations of different Galactic environments in the FIR/submm,
in order to derive a set of canonical model parameters to be used as a Galactic
reference to be compared to in future Galactic and extragalactic studies. We
confront the TLS model with existing astronomical data. We consider the average
emission spectrum at high latitudes in our Galaxy as measured with FIRAS and
WMAP, as well as the emission from Galactic compact sources observed with
Archeops, for which an inverse relationship between the dust temperature and
the emissivity spectral index has been evidenced. We show that, unlike models
previously proposed which often invoke two dust components at different
temperatures, the TLS model successfully reproduces both the shape of the
Galactic SED and its evolution with temperature as observed in the Archeops
data. The best TLS model parameters indicate a charge coherence length of
\simeq 13 nm and other model parameters in broad agreement with expectations
from laboratory studies of dust analogs. We conclude that the millimeter excess
emission, which is often attributed to the presence of very cold dust in the
diffuse ISM, is likely caused solely by TLS emission in disordered amorphous
dust grains. We discuss the implications of the new model, in terms of mass
determinations from millimeter continuum observations and the expected
variations of the emissivity spectral index with wavelength and dust
temperature. The implications for the analysis of the Herschel and Planck
satellite data are discussed.