High ions towards white dwarfs: circumstellar line shifts and stellar
  temperature
Based on a compilation of OVI, CIV, SiIV and NV data from IUE, FUSE, GHRS,
STIS, and COS, we derive an anti- correlation between the stellar temperature
and the high ion velocity shift w.r.t. to the photosphere, with positive (resp.
negative) velocity shifts for the cooler (resp. hotter) white dwarfs. This
trend probably reflects more than a single process, however such a dependence
on the WD's temperature again favors a CS origin for a very large fraction of
those ion absorptions, previously observed with IUE, HST-STIS, HST-GHRS, FUSE,
and now COS, selecting objects for which absorption line radial velocities,
stellar effective temperature and photospheric velocity can be found in the
literature. Interestingly, and gas in near-equilibrium in the star vicinity. It
is also probably significant that the temperature that corresponds to a null
radial velocity, i.e. \simeq 50,000K, also corresponds to the threshold below
which there is a dichotomy between pure or heavy elements atmospheres as well
as some temperature estimates for and a form of balance between radiation
pressure and gravitation. This is consistent with ubiquitous evaporation of
orbiting dusty material. Together with the fact that the fraction of stars with
(red-or blue-) shifted lines and the fraction of stars known to possess heavy
species in their atmosphere are of the same order, such a velocity-temperature
relationship is consistent with quasi-continuous evaporation of orbiting CS
dusty material, followed by accretion and settling down in the photosphere. In
view of these results, ion measurements close to the photospheric or the IS
velocity should be interpreted with caution, especially for stars at
intermediate temperatures. While tracing CS gas, they may be erroneously
attributed to photospheric material or to the ISM, explaining the difficulty of
finding a coherent pattern of the high ions in the local IS 3D distribution.