Ionized gas kinematics of galaxies in the CALIFA survey I: Velocity
  fields, kinematic parameters of the dominant component, and presence of
  kinematically distinct gaseous systems
This work provides an overall characterization of the kinematic behavior of
the ionized gas of the galaxies included in the Calar Alto Legacy Integral
field Area (CALIFA), offering kinematic clues to potential users of this survey
for including kinematical criteria for specific studies. From the first 200
galaxies observed by CALIFA, we present the 2D kinematic view of the 177
galaxies satisfying a gas detection threshold. After removing the stellar
contribution, we used the cross-correlation technique to obtain the radial
velocity of the dominant gaseous component. The main kinematic parameters were
directly derived from the radial velocities with no assumptions on the internal
motions. Evidence of the presence of several gaseous components with different
kinematics were detected by using [OIII] profiles. Most objects in the sample
show regular velocity fields, although the ionized-gas kinematics are rarely
consistent with simple coplanar circular motions. 35% of the objects present
evidence of a displacement between the photometric and kinematic centers larger
than the original spaxel radii. Only 17% of the objects in the sample exhibit
kinematic lopsidedness when comparing receding and approaching sides of the
velocity fields, but most of them are interacting galaxies exhibiting nuclear
activity. Early-type galaxies in the sample present clear photometric-kinematic
misaligments. There is evidence of asymmetries in the emission line profiles
suggesting the presence of kinematically distinct gaseous components at
different distances from the nucleus. This work constitutes the first
determination of the ionized gas kinematics of the galaxies observed in the
CALIFA survey. The derived velocity fields, the reported kinematic
peculiarities and the identification of the presence of several gaseous
components might be used as additional criteria for selecting galaxies for
specific studies.