Dust properties inside molecular clouds from coreshine modeling and
  observations
Context. Using observations to deduce dust properties, grain size
distribution, and physical conditions in molecular clouds is a highly
degenerate problem. Aims. The coreshine phenomenon, a scattering process at 3.6
and 4.5 $\mu$m that dominates absorption, has revealed its ability to explore
the densest parts of clouds. We want to use this effect to constrain the dust
parameters. The goal is to investigate to what extent grain growth (at constant
dust mass) inside molecular clouds is able to explain the coreshine
observations. We aim to find dust models that can explain a sample of Spitzer
coreshine data. We also look at the consistency with near-infrared data we
obtained for a few clouds. Methods. We selected four regions with a very high
occurrence of coreshine cases: Taurus-Perseus, Cepheus, Chameleon and
L183/L134. We built a grid of dust models and investigated the key parameters
to reproduce the general trend of surface bright- nesses and intensity ratios
of both coreshine and near-infrared observations with the help of a 3D
Monte-Carlo radiative transfer code. The grid parameters allow to investigate
the effect of coagulation upon spherical grains up to 5 $\mu$m in size derived
from the DustEm diffuse interstellar medium grains. Fluffiness (porosity or
fractal degree), ices, and a handful of classical grain size distributions were
also tested. We used the near- and mostly mid-infrared intensity ratios as
strong discriminants between dust models. Results. The determination of the
background field intensity at each wavelength is a key issue. In particular, an
especially strong background field explains why we do not see coreshine in the
Galactic plane at 3.6 and 4.5 $\mu$m. For starless cores, where detected, the
observed 4.5 $\mu$m / 3.6 $\mu$m coreshine intensity ratio is always lower than
$\sim$0.5 which is also what we find in the models for the Taurus-Perseus and
L183 directions. Embedded sources can lead to higher fluxes (up to four times
greater than the strongest starless core fluxes) and higher coreshine ratios
(from 0.5 to 1.1 in our selected sample). Normal interstellar radiation field
conditions are sufficient to find suitable grain models at all wavelengths for
starless cores. The standard interstellar grains are not able to reproduce
observations and, due to the multi-wavelength approach, only a few grain types
meet the criteria set by the data. Porosity does not affect the flux ratios
while the fractal dimension helps to explain coreshine ratios but does not seem
able to reproduce near-infrared observations without a mix of other grain
types. Conclusions. Combined near- and mid-infrared wavelengths confirm the
potential to reveal the nature and size distribution of dust grains. Careful
assessment of the environmental parameters (interstellar and background fields,
embedded or nearby reddened sources) is required to validate this new
diagnostic.