Central kinematics of the globular cluster NGC 2808: Upper limit on the
  mass of an intermediate-mass black hole
Globular clusters are an excellent laboratory for stellar population and
dynamical research. Recent studies have shown that these stellar systems are
not as simple as previously assumed. With multiple stellar populations as well
as outer rotation and mass segregation they turn out to exhibit high
complexity. This includes intermediate-mass black holes which are proposed to
sit at the centers of some massive globular clusters. Today's high angular
resolution ground based spectrographs allow velocity-dispersion measurements at
a spatial resolution comparable to the radius of influence for plausible IMBH
masses, and to detect changes in the inner velocity-dispersion profile.
Together with high quality photometric data from HST, it is possible to
constrain black-hole masses by their kinematic signatures. We determine the
central velocity-dispersion profile of the globular cluster NGC 2808 using
VLT/FLAMES spectroscopy. In combination with HST/ACS data our goal is to probe
whether this massive cluster hosts an intermediate-mass black hole at its
center and constrain the cluster mass to light ratio as well as its total mass.
We derive a velocity-dispersion profile from integral field spectroscopy in the
center and Fabry Perot data for larger radii. High resolution HST data are used
to obtain the surface brightness profile. Together, these data sets are
compared to dynamical models with varying parameters such as mass to light
ratio profiles and black-hole masses. Using analytical Jeans models in
combination with variable M/L profiles from N-body simulations we find that the
best fit model is a no black hole solution. After applying various Monte Carlo
simulations to estimate the uncertainties, we derive an upper limit of the back
hole mass of M_BH < 1 x 10^4 M_SUN (with 95 % confidence limits) and a global
mass-to-light ratio of M/L_V = (2.1 +- 0.2) M_SUN/L_SUN.