Stochastic resonance controlled upregulation of internal noise after
  hearing loss as a putative correlate of tinnitus-related neuronal
  hyperactivity
Subjective tinnitus (ST) is generally assumed to be a consequence of hearing
loss (HL). In animal studies acoustic trauma can lead to behavioral signs of
ST, in human studies ST patients without increased hearing thresholds were
found to suffer from so called hidden HL. Additionally, ST is correlated with
pathologically increased spontaneous firing rates and neuronal hyperactivity
(NH) along the auditory pathway. Homeostatic plasticity (HP) has been proposed
as a compensation mechanism leading to the development of NH, arguing that
after HL initially decreased mean firing rates of neurons are subsequently
restored by increased spontaneous rates. However all HP models fundamentally
lack explanatory power since the function of keeping mean firing rate constant
remains elusive as does the benefit this might have in terms of information
processing. Furthermore the neural circuitry being able to perform the
comparison of preferred with actual mean firing rate remains unclear. Here we
propose an entirely new interpretation of ST related development of NH in terms
of information theory. We suggest that stochastic resonance (SR) plays a key
role in short- and long-term plasticity within the auditory system and is the
ultimate cause of NH and ST. SR has been found ubiquitous in neuroscience and
refers to the phenomenon that sub-threshold, unperceivable signals can be
transmitted by adding noise to sensor input. We argue that after HL, SR serves
to lift signals above the increased hearing threshold, hence subsequently
decreasing thresholds again. The increased amount of internal noise is the
correlate of the NH, which finally leads to the development of ST, due to
neuronal plasticity along the auditory pathway. We demonstrate the plausibility
of our hypothesis by using a computational model and provide exemplarily
findings of human and animal studies that are consistent with our model.