Uncovering Multi-Site Identifiability Based on Resting-State Functional
  Connectomes
Multi-site studies are becoming important to increase statistical power,
enhance generalizability, and to improve the likelihood of pooling relevant
subgroups together activities. Even with harmonized imaging sequences,
site-dependent variability can mask the advantages of these multi-site studies.
The aim of this study was to assess multi-site reproducibility in resting-state
functional connectivity fingerprints, and to improve identifiability of
functional connectomes. The individual fingerprinting of functional
connectivity profiles is promising due to its potential as a robust
neuroimaging biomarker. We evaluated, on two independent multi-site datasets,
individual fingerprints in test-retest visit pairs within and across two sites
and present a generalized framework based on principal component analysis to
improve identifiability. Those components that maximized differential
identifiability of a training dataset were used as an orthogonal connectivity
basis to reconstruct the functional connectomes of training and validation
sets. The optimally reconstructed functional connectomes showed a substantial
improvement in individual fingerprinting within and across the two sites
relative to the original data. A notable increase in ICC values for functional
edges and resting-state networks was also observed. Improvements in
identifiability were not found to be affected by global signal regression.
Post-hoc analyses assessed the effect of the number of fMRI volumes on
identifiability and showed that multi-site differential identifiability was for
all cases maximized after optimal reconstruction. The generalizability of the
optimal set of orthogonal basis of each dataset was evaluated through a
leave-one-out procedure. Overall, results demonstrate that the framework
presented in this study systematically improves identifiability in
resting-state functional connectomes in multi-site studies.