From Correlation to Causation: Estimation of Effective Connectivity from
  Continuous Brain Signals based on Zero-Lag Covariance
Knowing brain connectivity is of great importance both in basic research and
for clinical applications. We are proposing a method to infer directed
connectivity from zero-lag covariances of neuronal activity recorded at
multiple sites. This allows us to identify causal relations that are reflected
in neuronal population activity. To derive our strategy, we assume a generic
linear model of interacting continuous variables, the components of which
represent the activity of local neuronal populations. The suggested method for
inferring connectivity from recorded signals exploits the fact that the
covariance matrix derived from the observed activity contains information about
the existence, the direction and the sign of connections. Assuming a sparsely
coupled network, we disambiguate the underlying causal structure via
$L^1$-minimization. In general, this method is suited to infer effective
connectivity from resting state data of various types. We show that our method
is applicable over a broad range of structural parameters regarding network
size and connection probability of the network. We also explored parameters
affecting its activity dynamics, like the eigenvalue spectrum. Also, based on
the simulation of suitable Ornstein-Uhlenbeck processes to model BOLD dynamics,
we show that with our method it is possible to estimate directed connectivity
from zero-lag covariances derived from such signals. In this study, we consider
measurement noise and unobserved nodes as additional confounding factors.
Furthermore, we investigate the amount of data required for a reliable
estimate. Additionally, we apply the proposed method on a fMRI dataset. The
resulting network exhibits a tendency for close-by areas being connected as
well as inter-hemispheric connections between corresponding areas. Also, we
found that a large fraction of identified connections were inhibitory.