Correlation between amygdala BOLD activity and frontal EEG asymmetry
  during real-time fMRI neurofeedback training in patients with depression
Real-time fMRI neurofeedback (rtfMRI-nf) is an emerging approach for studies
and novel treatments of major depressive disorder (MDD). EEG performed
simultaneously with an rtfMRI-nf procedure allows an independent evaluation of
rtfMRI-nf brain modulation effects. Frontal EEG asymmetry in the alpha band is
a widely used measure of emotion and motivation that shows profound changes in
depression. However, it has never been directly related to simultaneously
acquired fMRI data. We report the first study investigating
electrophysiological correlates of the rtfMRI-nf procedure, by combining
rtfMRI-nf with simultaneous and passive EEG recordings. In this pilot study,
MDD patients in the experimental group (n=13) learned to upregulate BOLD
activity of the left amygdala using an rtfMRI-nf during a happy emotion
induction task. MDD patients in the control group (n=11) were provided with a
sham rtfMRI-nf. Correlations between frontal EEG asymmetry in the upper alpha
band and BOLD activity across the brain were examined. Average individual
changes in frontal EEG asymmetry during the rtfMRI-nf task for the experimental
group showed a significant positive correlation with the MDD patients'
depression severity ratings, consistent with an inverse correlation between the
depression severity and frontal EEG asymmetry at rest. Temporal correlations
between frontal EEG asymmetry and BOLD activity were significantly enhanced,
during the rtfMRI-nf task, for the amygdala and many regions associated with
emotion regulation. Our findings demonstrate an important link between amygdala
BOLD activity and frontal EEG asymmetry. Our EEG asymmetry results suggest that
the rtfMRI-nf training targeting the amygdala is beneficial to MDD patients,
and that alpha-asymmetry EEG-nf would be compatible with the amygdala
rtfMRI-nf. Combination of the two could enhance emotion regulation training and
benefit MDD patients.