Characterizing the nonlinear structure of shared variability in cortical
  neuron populations using latent variable models
Sensory neurons often have variable responses to repeated presentations of
the same stimulus, which can significantly degrade the stimulus information
contained in those responses. This information can in principle be preserved if
variability is shared across many neurons, but depends on the structure of the
shared variability and its relationship to sensory encoding at the population
level. The structure of this shared variability in neural activity can be
characterized by latent variable models, although they have thus far typically
been used under restrictive mathematical assumptions. Here we introduce two
nonlinear latent variable models for analyzing large-scale neural recordings.
We first present a general nonlinear latent variable model that is agnostic to
the stimulus tuning properties of the individual neurons, and is hence well
suited for exploring neural populations whose tuning properties are not well
characterized. This motivates a second class of model, the Generalized Affine
Model, which simultaneously determines each neuron's stimulus selectivity and a
set of latent variables that modulate these stimulus-driven responses both
additively and multiplicatively. While these approaches can detect very general
nonlinear relationships in shared neural variability, we find that neural
activity recorded in anesthetized primary visual cortex (V1) is best described
by a single additive and single multiplicative latent variable, i.e. an `affine
model'. In contrast, application of the same models to recordings in awake
macaque prefrontal cortex discover more general nonlinearities to compactly
describe the population response variability. These results thus demonstrate
how nonlinear latent variable models can be used to describe population
response variability, and suggest that a range of methods is necessary to study
different brain regions under different experimental conditions.