Gain control with A-type potassium current: IA as a switch between
  divisive and subtractive inhibition
Neurons process information by transforming barrages of synaptic inputs into
spiking activity. Synaptic inhibition suppresses the output firing activity of
a neuron, and is commonly classified as having a subtractive or divisive effect
on a neuron's output firing activity. Subtractive inhibition can narrow the
range of inputs that evoke spiking activity by eliminating responses to
non-preferred inputs. Divisive inhibition is a form of gain control: it
modifies firing rates while preserving the range of inputs that evoke firing
activity. Since these two "modes" of inhibition have distinct impacts on neural
coding, it is important to understand the biophysical mechanisms that
distinguish these response profiles.
  We use simulations and mathematical analysis of a neuron model to find the
specific conditions for which inhibitory inputs have subtractive or divisive
effects. We identify a novel role for the A-type Potassium current (IA). In our
model, this fast-activating, slowly- inactivating outward current acts as a
switch between subtractive and divisive inhibition. If IA is strong (large
maximal conductance) and fast (activates on a time-scale similar to spike
initiation), then inhibition has a subtractive effect on neural firing. In
contrast, if IA is weak or insufficiently fast-activating, then inhibition has
a divisive effect on neural firing. We explain these findings using dynamical
systems methods to define how a spike threshold condition depends on synaptic
inputs and IA.
  Our findings suggest that neurons can "self-regulate" the gain control
effects of inhibition via combinations of synaptic plasticity and/or modulation
of the conductance and kinetics of A-type Potassium channels. This novel role
for IA would add flexibility to neurons and networks, and may relate to recent
observations of divisive inhibitory effects on neurons in the nucleus of the
solitary tract.