The unified maximum a posteriori (MAP) framework for neuronal system
  identification
The functional relationship between an input and a sensory neuron's response
can be described by the neuron's stimulus-response mapping function. A general
approach for characterizing the stimulus-response mapping function is called
system identification. Many different names have been used for the
stimulus-response mapping function: kernel or transfer function, transducer,
spatiotemporal receptive field. Many algorithms have been developed to estimate
a neuron's mapping function from an ensemble of stimulus-response pairs. These
include the spike-triggered average, normalized reverse correlation, linearized
reverse correlation, ridge regression, local spectral reverse correlation,
spike-triggered covariance, artificial neural networks, maximally informative
dimensions, kernel regression, boosting, and models based on leaky
integrate-and-fire neurons. Because many of these system identification
algorithms were developed in other disciplines, they seem very different
superficially and bear little relationship with each other. Each algorithm
makes different assumptions about the neuron and how the data is generated.
Without a unified framework it is difficult to select the most suitable
algorithm for estimating the neuron's mapping function. In this review, we
present a unified framework for describing these algorithms called maximum a
posteriori estimation (MAP). In the MAP framework, the implicit assumptions
built into any system identification algorithm are made explicit in three MAP
constituents: model class, noise distributions, and priors. Understanding the
interplay between these three MAP constituents will simplify the task of
selecting the most appropriate algorithms for a given data set. The MAP
framework can also facilitate the development of novel system identification
algorithms by incorporating biophysically plausible assumptions and mechanisms
into the MAP constituents.