Decoded fMRI neurofeedback can induce bidirectional behavioral changes
  within single participants
Studies using real-time functional magnetic resonance imaging (rt-fMRI) have
recently incorporated the decoding approach, allowing for fMRI to be used as a
tool for manipulation of fine-grained neural activity. Because of the
tremendous potential for clinical applications, certain questions regarding
decoded neurofeedback (DecNef) must be addressed. Neurofeedback effects can
last for months, but the short- to mid-term dynamics are not known.
Specifically, can the same subjects learn to induce neural patterns in two
opposite directions in different sessions? This leads to a further question,
whether learning to reverse a neural pattern may be less effective after
training to induce it in a previous session. Here we employed a
within-subjects' design, with subjects undergoing DecNef training sequentially
in opposite directions (up or down regulation of confidence judgements in a
perceptual task), with the order counterbalanced across subjects. Behavioral
results indicated that the manipulation was strongly influenced by the order
and direction of neurofeedback. We therefore applied nonlinear mathematical
modeling to parametrize four main consequences of DecNef: main effect of change
in behavior, strength of down-regulation effect relative to up-regulation,
maintenance of learning over sessions, and anterograde learning interference.
Modeling results revealed that DecNef successfully induced bidirectional
behavioral changes in different sessions. Furthermore, up-regulation was more
sizable, and the effect was largely preserved even after an interval of
one-week. Lastly, the second week effect was diminished as compared to the
first week effect, indicating strong anterograde learning interference. These
results suggest reinforcement learning characteristics of DecNef, and provide
important constraints on its application to basic neuroscience, occupational
and sports trainings, and therapies.