Chronic neural probe for simultaneous recording of single-unit,
  multi-unit, and local field potential activity from multiple brain sites
Drug resistant focal epilepsy can be treated by resecting the epileptic focus
requiring a precise focus localization using stereoelectroencephalography
(SEEG) probes. As commercial SEEG probes offer only a limited spatial
resolution, probes of higher channel count and design freedom enabling the
incorporation of macro and microelectrodes would help increasing spatial
resolution and thus open new perspectives for investigating mechanisms
underlying focal epilepsy and its treatment. This work describes a new
fabrication process for SEEG probes with materials and dimensions similar to
clinical probes enabling recording single neuron activity at high spatial
resolution. Polyimide is used as a biocompatible flexible substrate into which
platinum electrodes and leads are...
  The resulting probe features match those of clinically approved devices.
Tests in saline solution confirmed the probe stability and functionality.
Probes were implanted into the brain of one monkey (Macaca mulatta), trained to
perform different motor tasks. Suitable configurations including up to 128
electrode sites allow the recording of task-related neuronal signals. Probes
with 32 and 64 electrode sites were implanted in the posterior parietal cortex.
Local field potentials and multi-unit activity were recorded as early as one
hour after implantation. Stable single-unit activity was achieved for up to 26
days after implantation of a 64-channel probe. All recorded signals showed
modulation during task execution. With the novel probes it is possible to
record stable biologically relevant data over a time span exceeding the usual
time needed for epileptic focus localization in human patients. This is the
first time that single units are recorded along cylindrical polyimide probes
chronically implanted 22 mm deep into the brain of a monkey, which suggests the
potential usefulness of this probe for human applications.