The Impact of UCMAS Training Program on Potentiating Cognitive Capacity
  among 9-12 Year-Old Primary Schoolers in Shiraz
The Universal Concept of Mental Arithmetic System (UCMAS) is a modern
representation of an ancient art of mental arithmetic. Although such a training
is hypothesized to result in potential effects on mental capacity and cognitive
performance in experienced trainees, this has not sufficiently been
systematically studied. The present study was an attempt to compare the
objective testing score of Less-trained (less than 6 months of training) and
experienced (over 36 months of training) UCMAS-trained young adolescents in
Shiraz. Thirty healthy participants aged 9-12 were recruited from UCMAS
training centers in Shiraz. The two study arms (comprising 15 less-trained and
15 experienced children) were ensured to be sex- and age-matched. The Cambridge
Brain Science-Cognitive Platform (CBS-CP) was employed as a media-rich computer
testing battery for cognitive assessments. Moreover, cerebral blood levels of
the participants was recorded through Hemoencephalography upon taking CBS-CP
tasks (ANI task of each participant).The experienced UCMAS-trained participants
were found to outperform in the Spatial Span (p=0.004), Digit Span (p=0.014)
and Monkey Ladder (P=0.022) tests in which Short-Term Memory and
Visuo-Constructive skills play important roles. Nevertheless, our findings
revealed no statistically significant difference between-group differences in
test scores which measured other cognitive domains. Adding to the existing body
of evidence on the effect of UCMAS training on potentiating cognitive capacity,
our findings suggest that experienced UCMAS trainees tend to outperform in some
key cognitive domains including Short-Term Memory and Visuo-Constructive
Capacity. Further experimental neuroscience studies using quantitative
electroencephalography and functional magnetic- or optic-neuroimaging would
shed further light to neurodynamics of such a differentiation.