VIOLA - A multi-purpose and web-based visualization tool for
  neuronal-network simulation output
Neuronal network models and corresponding computer simulations are invaluable
tools to aid the interpretation of the relationship between neuron properties,
connectivity and measured activity in cortical tissue. Spatiotemporal patterns
of activity propagating across the cortical surface as observed experimentally
can for example be described by neuronal network models with layered geometry
and distance-dependent connectivity. The interpretation of the resulting stream
of multi-modal and multi-dimensional simulation data calls for integrating
interactive visualization steps into existing simulation-analysis workflows.
Here, we present a set of interactive visualization concepts called views for
the visual analysis of activity data in topological network models, and a
corresponding reference implementation VIOLA (VIsualization Of Layer Activity).
The software is a lightweight, open-source, web-based and platform-independent
application combining and adapting modern interactive visualization paradigms,
such as coordinated multiple views, for massively parallel neurophysiological
data. For a use-case demonstration we consider spiking activity data of a
two-population, layered point-neuron network model subject to a spatially
confined excitation originating from an external population. With the multiple
coordinated views, an explorative and qualitative assessment of the
spatiotemporal features of neuronal activity can be performed upfront of a
detailed quantitative data analysis of specific aspects of the data.
Furthermore, ongoing efforts including the European Human Brain Project aim at
providing online user portals for integrated model development, simulation,
analysis and provenance tracking, wherein interactive visual analysis tools are
one component. Browser-compatible, web-technology based solutions are therefore
required. Within this scope, with VIOLA we provide a first prototype.