The Energy Landscape Underpinning Module Dynamics in the Human Brain
  Connectome
Human brain dynamics can be profitably viewed through the lens of statistical
mechanics, where neurophysiological activity evolves around and between local
attractors representing preferred mental states. Many physically-inspired
models of these dynamics define the state of the brain based on instantaneous
measurements of regional activity. Yet, recent work in network neuroscience has
provided initial evidence that the brain might also be well-characterized by
time-varying states composed of locally coherent activity or functional
modules. Here we study this network-based notion of brain state to understand
how functional modules dynamically interact with one another to perform
cognitive functions. We estimate the functional relationships between regions
of interest (ROIs) by fitting a pair-wise maximum entropy model to each ROI's
pattern of allegiance to functional modules. Local minima in this model
represent attractor states characterized by specific patterns of modular
structure. The clustering of local minima highlights three classes of ROIs with
similar patterns of allegiance to community states. Visual, attention,
sensorimotor, and subcortical ROIs tend to form a single functional community.
The remaining ROIs tend to form a putative executive control community or a
putative default mode and salience community. We simulate the brain's dynamic
transitions between these community states using a Markov Chain Monte Carlo
random walk. We observe that simulated transition probabilities between basins
resemble empirically observed transitions between community allegiance states
in resting state fMRI data. These results collectively offer a view of the
brain as a dynamical system that transitions between basins of attraction
characterized by coherent activity in small groups of brain regions, and that
the strength of these attractors depends on the cognitive computations being
performed.