Characterization of the Community Structure of Large Scale Functional
  Brain Networks During Ketamine-Medetomidine Anesthetic Induction
One of the central questions in neuroscience is to understand the way
communication is organized in the brain, trying to comprehend how cognitive
capacities or physiological states of the organism are potentially related to
brain activities involving interactions of several brain areas. One important
characteristic of the functional brain networks is that they are modularly
structured, being this modular architecture regarded to account for a series of
properties and functional dynamics. In the neurobiological context, communities
may indicate brain regions that are involved in one same activity, representing
neural segregated processes. Several studies have demonstrated the modular
character of organization of brain activities. However, empirical evidences
regarding to its dynamics and relation to different levels of consciousness
have not been reported yet. Within this context, this research sought to
characterize the community structure of functional brain networks during an
anesthetic induction process. The experiment was based on intra-cranial
recordings of neural activities of an old world macaque of the species Macaca
fuscata during a Ketamine-Medetomidine anesthetic induction process. Networks
were serially estimated in time intervals of five seconds. Changes were
observed within about one and a half minutes after the administration of the
anesthetics, revealing the occurrence of a transition on the community
structure. The awake state was characterized by the presence of large clusters
involving frontal and parietal regions, while the anesthetized state by the
presence of communities in the primary visual and motor cortices, being the
areas of the secondary associative cortex most affected. The results report the
influence of general anesthesia on the structure of functional clusters,
contributing for understanding some new aspects of neural correlates of
consciousness.