Reconciliation of weak pairwise spike-train correlations and highly
  coherent local field potentials across space
Chronic and acute implants of multi-electrode arrays that cover several
mm$^2$ of neural tissue provide simultaneous access to population signals like
extracellular potentials and the spiking activity of 100 or more individual
neurons. While the recorded data may uncover principles of brain function, its
interpretation calls for multiscale computational models with corresponding
spatial dimensions and signal predictions. Such models can facilitate the
search of mechanisms underlying observed spatiotemporal activity patterns in
cortex. Multi-layer spiking neuron network models of local cortical circuits
covering ~1 mm$^2$ have been developed, integrating experimentally obtained
neuron-type specific connectivity data and reproducing features of in-vivo
spiking statistics. With forward models, local field potentials (LFPs) can be
computed from the simulated spiking activity. To account for the spatial scale
of common neural recordings, we extend a local network and LFP model to 4x4
mm$^2$. The upscaling preserves the neuron densities, and introduces
distance-dependent connection probabilities and delays. As detailed
experimental connectivity data is partially lacking, we address this
uncertainty in model parameters by testing parameter combinations within
biologically plausible bounds. Based on model predictions of spiking activity
and LFPs, we find that the upscaling procedure preserves the overall spiking
statistics of the original model and reproduces asynchronous irregular spiking
across populations and weak pairwise spike-train correlations observed in
sensory cortex. In contrast with the weak spike-train correlations, the
correlation of LFP signals is strong and distance-dependent, compatible with
experimental observations. Enhanced spatial coherence in the low-gamma band may
explain the recent experimental report of an apparent band-pass filter effect
in the spatial reach of the LFP.