Statistics of Visual Responses to Object Stimuli from Primate AIT
  Neurons to DNN Neurons
Cadieu et al. (Cadieu,2014) reported that deep neural networks(DNNs) could
rival the representation of primate inferotemporal cortex for object
recognition. Lehky et al. (Lehky,2011) provided a statistical analysis on
neural responses to object stimuli in primate AIT cortex. They found the
intrinsic dimensionality of object representations in AIT cortex is around 100
(Lehky,2014). Considering the outstanding performance of DNNs in object
recognition, it is worthwhile investigating whether the responses of DNN
neurons have similar response statistics to those of AIT neurons. Following
Lehky et al.'s works, we analyze the response statistics to image stimuli and
the intrinsic dimensionality of object representations of DNN neurons. Our
findings show in terms of kurtosis and Pareto tail index, the response
statistics on single-neuron selectivity and population sparseness of DNN
neurons are fundamentally different from those of IT neurons except some
special cases. By increasing the number of neurons and stimuli, the conclusions
could alter substantially. In addition, with the ascendancy of the
convolutional layers of DNNs, the single-neuron selectivity and population
sparseness of DNN neurons increase, indicating the last convolutional layer is
to learn features for object representations, while the following
fully-connected layers are to learn categorization features. It is also found
that a sufficiently large number of stimuli and neurons are necessary for
obtaining a stable dimensionality. To our knowledge, this is the first work to
analyze the response statistics of DNN neurons comparing with AIT neurons, and
our results provide not only some insights into the discrepancy of DNN neurons
with respect to IT neurons in object representation, but also shed some light
on possible outcomes of IT neurons when the number of recorded neurons and
stimuli is beyond the level in (Lehky,2011,2014).