Built to Last: Functional and structural mechanisms in the moth
  olfactory network mitigate effects of neural injury
Most organisms are exposed to neural damage throughout their lives, which can
reduce their ability to carry out core behavioral tasks. Their neural circuits
need to maintain functionality despite injury, which often requires that key
readout signals from the system be preserved. In this work, we explore whether
and how certain structural and functional network motifs act as injury
mitigation mechanisms by protecting these readouts. Specifically, we examine
how (i) Hebbian learning, (ii) high levels of noise, and (iii) presence of
parallel inhibitory and excitatory connections contribute to robustness of the
olfactory system in the Manduca sexta moth.
  We simulate injuries on a detailed computational model of the moth olfactory
network in which structures-under-test are parametrically varied. Neuronal
impairments are modeled as focal axonal swellings, an axonal pathology observed
across all severities of traumatic brain injuries and present in other leading
brain disorders. Axonal swellings effectively compromise spike train
propagation along the axon and consequently reduce the effective neural firing
rate delivered to downstream neurons.
  All three of the network motifs examined significantly mitigate the effects
of injury on readout neurons, either by reducing injury's impact on readout
neuron responses or by restoring these responses to pre-injury levels through
reinforcement learning. These motifs may thus be partially explained by their
value as adaptive mechanisms to minimize the functional effects of neural
injury. More generally, these experiments suggest that robustness to injury is
a vital design principle to consider when analyzing biological neural systems.
Indeed, it is possible that some neural structures and mechanisms, including
the ability to learn, are best understood as evolutionary solutions to the
challenge of maintaining system function despite injury.