Reward and adversity processing circuits, their competition and
  interactions with dopamine and serotonin signaling
We propose that dACC, AI and caudolateral OFC(clOFC) project to lateral
habenula (LHb) and D2 loop of ventral striatum (VS), forming a functional
adversity processing circuit, directed towards inhibitory avoidance and
self-control. This circuit learns what is bad or harmful to us and predicts
risks, to stop us from going/moving for bad or suboptimal choices that decrease
our well-being and survival chances. Proposed dACC role is to generate a
WARNING signal when things are going (or might end) bad or wrong to prevent
negative consequences: pain, harm, loss or failure. The AI signals about bad
low aversive qualities, which make us sick or cause discomfort. These cortical
inputs activate directly and indirectly (via D2 loop of VS) the LHb, which
inhibits dopamine and serotonin release (and is reciprocally inhibited by VTA,
DRN) to avoid choosing and doing things leading to harm or loss, but also to
make us feel worse, down when overstimulated. We propose that dopamine
attenuates the output of the adversity processing circuit, thus decreasing
inhibitory avoidance and self-control, while serotonin attenuates dACC, AI,
clOFC, D1 loop of VS, LHb, amygdala and pain pathway. Thus, by reciprocal
inhibition, by causing dopamine and serotonin suppression - and by being
suppressed by them, the adversity processing circuit competes with reward
processing circuit for control of choice behaviour and affective states. We
propose stimulating effect of dopamine and calming inhibitory effect of
serotonin on the active avoidance circuit involving amygdala, linked to threat
processing, anger, fear, self-defense and violences. We describe causes and
roles of dopamine and serotonin signaling, and mental dysfunctions. We add new
idea on vACC role in signaling that we are doing well and in inducing
serotonin, when we gain/reach safety, comfort, valuable resources,
social/biological rewards, affection or goals.