Extracting impedance changes from a frequency multiplexed signal during
  neural activity in sciatic nerve of rat: preliminary study in-vitro
Objective: Establish suitable frequency spacing and demodulation steps to use
when extracting impedance changes from frequency division multiplexed (FDM)
carrier signals in peripheral nerve. Approach: Experiments were performed
in-vitro on cadavers immediately following euthanasia. Neural activity was
evoked via stimulation of nerves in the hind paw, while carrier signals were
injected, and recordings obtained, with a dual ring nerve cuff implanted on the
sciatic nerve. Frequency analysis of recorded compound action potentials (CAPs)
and extracted impedance changes, with the latter obtained using established
demodulation methods, were used to determine suitable frequency spacing of
carrier signals, and bandpass filter (BPF) bandwidth and order, for a frequency
multiplexed signal. Main results: CAPs and impedance changes were dominant in
the frequency band 200 to 500 Hz and 100 to 200 Hz, respectively. A Tukey
window was introduced to remove ringing from Gibbs phenomena. A +/- 750 Hz BPF
bandwidth was selected to encompass 99.99 % of the frequency power of the
impedance change. Modelling predicted a minimum BPF order of 16 for 2 kHz
spacing, and 10 for 4 kHz spacing, were required to avoid ringing from the
neighbouring carrier signal, while FDM experiments verified BPF orders of 12
and 8, respectively, were required. With a notch filter centred on the
neighbouring signal, a BPF order of at least 6 or 4 was required for 2 and 4
kHz, respectively. Significance: The results establish drive frequency spacing
and demodulation settings for use in FDM electrical impedance tomography (EIT)
experiments, as well as a framework for their selection, and, for the first
time, demonstrates the viability of FDM-EIT of neural activity on peripheral
nerve, which will be a central aspect of future real-time neural-EIT systems
and EIT-based neural prosthetics interfaces.