Exploring the reproducibility of functional connectivity alterations in
  Parkinson's Disease
Since anatomic MRI is presently not able to directly discern neuronal loss in
Parkinson's Disease (PD), studying the associated functional connectivity (FC)
changes seems a promising approach toward developing non-invasive and
non-radioactive neuroimaging markers for this disease. While several groups
have reported such FC changes in PD, there are also significant discrepancies
between studies. Investigating the reproducibility of PD-related FC changes on
independent datasets is therefore of crucial importance. We acquired
resting-state fMRI scans for 43 subjects (27 patients , 16 controls) and
compared the observed FC changes with those obtained in 2 independent datasets,
one made available by the PPMI consortium and a second one by the group of Tao
Wu. Unfortunately, PD-related functional connectivity changes turned out to be
non-reproducible across datasets. This could be due to disease heterogeneity,
but also to technical differences. To distinguish between the two, we devised a
method to directly check for disease heterogeneity using random splits of a
single dataset. Since we still observe non-reproducibility in a large fraction
of random splits of the same dataset, we conclude that functional heterogeneity
may be a dominating factor behind the lack of reproducibility of FC alterations
in different rs-fMRI studies of PD. While global PD-related functional
connectivity changes were non-reproducible across datasets, we identified a few
individual brain region pairs with marginally consistent FC changes across all
three datasets. However, training classifiers on each one of the 3 datasets to
discriminate PD scans from controls produced only low accuracies on the
remaining two test datasets. Moreover, classifiers trained and tested on random
splits of the same dataset (which are technically homogeneous) also had low
test accuracies, directly substantiating disease heterogeneity.