SWS promoting MHb-IPN-MRN circuit opposes the theta promoting circuit,
  active wake and REM sleep
Hippocampus was by multisynaptic axonal tracts linked to medial habenula in
my DTI study. These tracts linked hippocampus to septum, and amygdala to BNST.
Septal and BNST axons passed by anteromedial thalamic nucleus to MHb, which
projected to pineal gland. Question is what is the MHb doing and why it
receives information from hippocampus via septum? This study explores the MHb
connectivity, predicts its functional role and how it is linked to memory.
Combination of known findings about the septum and MHb connectivity and
function led to this circuit-based idea that posterior septum activates MHb,
MHb activates IPN,and IPN stimulates MRN and its serotonin release. Proposed
idea is that this MHb-IPN-MRN circuit promotes slow wave sleep (SWS), high
serotonin and low acetylcholine state. My prediction is that this SWS-promoting
circuit reciprocally suppresses the theta oscillations promoting circuit,
linked to high acetylcholine levels in brain, and formed by supramamillary area
projections to the medial septum (MS) that induces theta rhythm in hippocampus
and other theta-coupled regions. The MHb-IPN-MRN pathway likely inhibits,
possibly reciprocally,some regions that have stimulating input to the
theta-generating SUM and MS, such as the wake promoting nucleus incertus,
posterior and lateral hypothalamus and LDT, but also the REM sleep inducing
neurons in LDT and PnO. Thus, proposed SWS- promoting circuit attenuates the
output of theta-promoting regions, both the active wake-on and REM-on regions.
The theta rhythm in wake state is linked to recording and binding information
with their spatio-temporal and relational context by hippocampus, while the SWS
supports rest and replay of hippocampaly stored information and their cortical
reactivations, e. g. in retrosplenial cortex linked to autobiographic memory or
in prefrontal cortex that can combine information from any source.