Meta-analysis of Gene Expression in Neurodegenerative Diseases Reveals
  Patterns in GABA Synthesis and Heat Stress Pathways
Neurodegenerative diseases are characterized as the progressive loss of
neural cells, e.g. neurons, glial cells. Ageing, monogenic variations, viral
infections, and many other factors are determined and speculated as causes for
them. While many individual genes, such as APP for Alzheimer disease and HTT
for Huntington disease, and biological pathways are studied for
neurodegenerative diseases, system-wide pathogenesis studies are limited. In
this study, we carried out a meta-analysis of RNA-Seq studies for three
neurodegenerative diseases, namely Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and
Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) to minimize the batch effect derived
differences and identify the similarly altered factors among studies. Our main
assumption is that these three diseases share some pathological pathway
pattern. For this purpose, we downloaded publicly available Alzheimer's disease
(84 patients + 33 controls = 117 individuals), Parkinson's disease (28 patients
+ 43 controls = 71 individuals) and ALS (2 studies: 46 patients + 25 control =
71 individuals) RNA-Seq data from Sequence Read Archive (SRA) database. The
significantly differentially expressed genes common to these studies were first
identified and analyzed for the patterns in their pathways and variations. Our
meta-analysis revealed the shared nature of differential gene expression and
mutation load of the cellular heat stress response and GABA synthesis in
neurodegenerative diseases. The downregulated GABA synthesis-related genes
(e.g. GAD1 and GAD2) and the upregulated cellular heat stress response-related
genes (e.g. DNAJB6 and HSP90AA1), in addition to their expression patterns,
contain unique variations in samples from patients with neurodegenerative
diseases. The significance of genes and pathways we identified in this study
corroborated by the recent literature on neurodegenerative diseases.