Human Echolocation in Static Situations: Auditory Models of Detection
  Thresholds for Distance, Pitch, Loudness and Timbre
We investigated, by using auditory models, how three perceptual parameters,
loudness, pitch and sharpness, determine human echolocation. We used acoustic
recordings from two previous studies, both from stationary situations, and
their resulting perceptual data as input to our analysis. An initial analysis
was on the room acoustics of the recordings. The parameters of interest were
sound pressure level, autocorrelation and spectral centroid. The auditory
models were used to analyze echolocation resulting from the perceptual
variables, i.e. loudness, pitch and sharpness. Relevant auditory models were
chosen to simulate each variable. Based on these results, we calculated
psychophysical thresholds for detecting a reflecting object with constant
physical size. A non-parametric method was used to determine thresholds for
distance, loudness, pitch and sharpness. Difference thresholds were calculated
for the psychophysical variables, since a 2-Alternative-Forced-Choice Paradigm
had originally been used. We found that (1) blind persons could detect objects
at lower loudness values, lower pitch strength, different sharpness values and
at further distances than sighted persons, (2) detection thresholds based on
repetition pitch, loudness and sharpness varied and depended on room acoustics
and type of sound stimuli, (3) repetition pitch was useful for detection at
shorter distances and was determined from the peaks in the temporal profile of
the autocorrelation function, (4) loudness at shorter distances provides
echolocation information, (5) at longer distances, timbre aspects, such as
sharpness, might be used to detect objects. We also discuss binaural
information, movements and the auditory model approach. Autocorrelation was
assumed as a proper measure for pitch, but the question is raised whether a
mechanism based on strobe integration is a viable possibility.