Accurate reconstruction of image stimuli from human fMRI based on the
  decoding model with capsule network architecture
In neuroscience, all kinds of computation models were designed to answer the
open question of how sensory stimuli are encoded by neurons and conversely, how
sensory stimuli can be decoded from neuronal activities. Especially, functional
Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) studies have made many great achievements
with the rapid development of the deep network computation. However, comparing
with the goal of decoding orientation, position and object category from
activities in visual cortex, accurate reconstruction of image stimuli from
human fMRI is a still challenging work. In this paper, the capsule network
(CapsNet) architecture based visual reconstruction (CNAVR) method is developed
to reconstruct image stimuli. The capsule means containing a group of neurons
to perform the better organization of feature structure and representation,
inspired by the structure of cortical mini column including several hundred
neurons in primates. The high-level capsule features in the CapsNet includes
diverse features of image stimuli such as semantic class, orientation, location
and so on. We used these features to bridge between human fMRI and image
stimuli. We firstly employed the CapsNet to train the nonlinear mapping from
image stimuli to high-level capsule features, and from high-level capsule
features to image stimuli again in an end-to-end manner. After estimating the
serviceability of each voxel by encoding performance to accomplish the
selecting of voxels, we secondly trained the nonlinear mapping from
dimension-decreasing fMRI data to high-level capsule features. Finally, we can
predict the high-level capsule features with fMRI data, and reconstruct image
stimuli with the CapsNet. We evaluated the proposed CNAVR method on the dataset
of handwritten digital images, and exceeded about 10% than the accuracy of all
existing state-of-the-art methods on the structural similarity index (SSIM).