A new pharmacological preconditioning-based target: from drosophila to
  kidney transplantation
One of the biggest challenges in medicine is to dampen the pathophysiological
stress induced by an episode of ischemia. Such stress, due to various
pathological or clinical situations, follows a restriction in blood and oxygen
supply to tissue, causing a shortage of oxygen and nutrients that are required
for cellular metabolism. Ischemia can cause irreversible damage to target
tissue leading to a poor physiological recovery outcome for the patient.
Contrariwise, preconditioning by brief periods of ischemia has been shown in
multiple organs to confer tolerance against subsequent normally lethal
ischemia. By definition, preconditioning of organs must be applied
preemptively. This limits the applicability of preconditioning in clinical
situations, which arise unpredictably, such as myocardial infarction and
stroke. There are, however, clinical situations that arise as a result of
ischemia-reperfusion injury, which can be anticipated, and are therefore
adequate candidates for preconditioning. Organ and more particularly kidney
transplantation, the optimal treatment for suitable patients with end stage
renal disease (ESRD), is a predictable surgery that permits the use of
preconditioning protocols to prepare the organ for subsequent
ischemic/reperfusion stress. It therefore seems crucial to develop appropriate
preconditioning protocols against ischemia that will occur under
transplantation conditions, which up to now mainly referred to mechanical
ischemic preconditioning that triggers innate responses. It is not known if
preconditioning has to be applied to the donor, the recipient, or both. No
drug/target pair has been envisioned and validated in the clinic. Options for
identifying new target/drug pairs involve the use of model animals, such as
drosophila, in which some physiological pathways, such as the management of
oxygen, are highly conserved across evolution. Oxygen is the universal element
of life existence on earth. In this review we focus on a very specific pathway
of pharmacological preconditioning identified in drosophila that was
successfully transferred to mammalian models that has potential application in
human health. Very few mechanisms identified in these model animals have been
translated to an upper evolutionary level. This review highlights the
commonality between oxygen regulation between diverse animals.