Multimodal Cross-registration and Quantification of Metric Distortions
  in Whole Brain Histology of Marmoset using Diffeomorphic Mappings
Whole brain neuroanatomy using tera-voxel light-microscopic data sets is of
much current interest. A fundamental problem in this field is the mapping of
individual brain data sets to a reference space. Previous work has not
rigorously quantified the distortions in brain geometry from in-vivo to ex-vivo
brains due to the tissue processing, which will be important when computing
properties such as local cell and process densities at the voxel level in
creating reference brain maps. Further, existing approaches focus on
registering uni-modal volumetric data; however, given the increasing interest
in the marmoset model for neuroscience research, it is necessary to
cross-register multi-modal data sets including MRIs and multiple histological
series that can help address individual variations in brain architecture. Here
we present a computational approach for same-subject multimodal MRI guided
reconstruction of a histological series, jointly with diffeomorphic mapping to
a reference atlas. We quantify the scale change during the different stages of
histological processing of the brains using the Jacobian determinant of the
diffeomorphic transformations involved. There are two major steps in the
histology process with associated scale distortions (a) brain perfusion (b)
histological sectioning and reassembly. By mapping the final image stacks to
the ex-vivo post fixation MRI, we show that tape-transfer histology can be
reassembled accurately into 3D volumes with a local scale change of 2.0 $\pm$
0.4% per axis dimension. In contrast, the perfusion step, as assessed by
mapping the in-vivo MRIs to the ex-vivo post fixation MRIs, shows a larger
local scale change of 6.9 $\pm$ 2.1% per axis dimension. This is the first
systematic quantification of the local metric distortions associated with
whole-brain histological processing, and we expect that the results will
generalize to other species.