Reorganization of functionally connected brain subnetworks in
  high-functioning autism
Background: Previous functional connectivity studies have found both hypo-
and hyper-connectivity in brains of individuals having autism spectrum disorder
(ASD). Here we studied abnormalities in functional brain subnetworks in
high-functioning individuals with ASD during free viewing of a movie containing
social cues and interactions. Methods: Thirteen subjects with ASD and 13
matched-pair controls watched a 68 minutes movie during functional magnetic
resonance imaging. For each subject, we computed Pearson`s correlation between
haemodynamic time-courses of each pair of 6-mm isotropic voxels. From the
whole-brain functional networks, we derived individual and group-level
subnetworks using graph theory. Scaled inclusivity was then calculated between
all subject pairs to estimate intersubject similarity of connectivity structure
of each subnetwork. Additional 27 individuals with ASD from the ABIDE
resting-state database were included to test the reproducibility of the
results. Results: Between-group differences were observed in the composition of
default-mode and a ventro-temporal-limbic (VTL) subnetwork. The VTL subnetwork
included amygdala, striatum, thalamus, parahippocampal, fusiform, and inferior
temporal gyri. Further, VTL subnetwork similarity between subject pairs
correlated significantly with similarity of symptom gravity measured with
autism quotient. This correlation was observed also within the controls, and in
the reproducibility dataset with ADI-R and ADOS scores. Conclusions:
Reorganization of functional subnetworks in individuals with ASD clarifies the
mixture of hypo- and hyper-connectivity findings. Importantly, only the
functional organization of the VTL subnetwork emerges as a marker of
inter-individual similarities that co-vary with behavioral measures across all
participants. These findings suggest a pivotal role of ventro-temporal and
limbic systems in autism.