Pattern Storage, Bifurcations and Higher-Order Correlation Structure of
  an Exactly Solvable Asymmetric Neural Network Model
Exactly solvable neural network models with asymmetric weights are rare, and
exact solutions are available only in some mean-field approaches. In this
article we find exact analytical solutions of an asymmetric spin-glass-like
model of arbitrary size and we perform a complete study of its dynamical and
statistical properties. The network has discrete-time evolution equations,
binary firing rates and can be driven by noise with any distribution. We find
analytical expressions of the conditional and stationary joint probability
distributions of the membrane potentials and the firing rates. The conditional
probability distribution of the firing rates allows us to introduce a new
learning rule to store safely, under the presence of noise, point and cyclic
attractors, with important applications in the field of content-addressable
memories. Furthermore, we study the neuronal dynamics in terms of the
bifurcation structure of the network. We derive analytically examples of the
codimension one and codimension two bifurcation diagrams of the network, which
describe how the neuronal dynamics changes with the external stimuli. In
particular, we find that the network may undergo transitions among multistable
regimes, oscillatory behavior elicited by asymmetric synaptic connections, and
various forms of spontaneous symmetry-breaking. On the other hand, the joint
probability distributions allow us to calculate analytically the higher-order
correlation structure of the network, which reveals neuronal regimes where,
statistically, the membrane potentials and the firing rates are either
synchronous or asynchronous. Our results are valid for networks composed of an
arbitrary number of neurons, but for completeness we also derive the network
equations in the mean-field limit and we study analytically their local
bifurcations. All the analytical results are extensively validated by numerical
simulations.