Partial Information Decomposition as a Unified Approach to the
  Specification of Neural Goal Functions
In many neural systems anatomical motifs are present repeatedly, but despite
their structural similarity they can serve very different tasks. A prime
example for such a motif is the canonical microcircuit of six-layered
neo-cortex, which is repeated across cortical areas, and is involved in a
number of different tasks (e.g.sensory, cognitive, or motor tasks). This
observation has spawned interest in finding a common underlying principle, a
'goal function', of information processing implemented in this structure. By
definition such a goal function, if universal, cannot be cast in
processing-domain specific language (e.g. 'edge filtering', 'working memory').
Thus, to formulate such a principle, we have to use a domain-independent
framework. Information theory offers such a framework. However, while the
classical framework of information theory focuses on the relation between one
input and one output (Shannon's mutual information), we argue that neural
information processing crucially depends on the combination of
\textit{multiple} inputs to create the output of a processor. To account for
this, we use a very recent extension of Shannon Information theory, called
partial information decomposition (PID). PID allows to quantify the information
that several inputs provide individually (unique information), redundantly
(shared information) or only jointly (synergistic information) about the
output. First, we review the framework of PID. Then we apply it to reevaluate
and analyze several earlier proposals of information theoretic neural goal
functions (predictive coding, infomax, coherent infomax, efficient coding). We
find that PID allows to compare these goal functions in a common framework, and
also provides a versatile approach to design new goal functions from first
principles. Building on this, we design and analyze a novel goal function,
called 'coding with synergy'. [...]