Open(G)PIAS: An open source solution for the construction of a
  high-precision Acoustic-Startle-Response (ASR) setup for tinnitus screening
  and threshold estimation in rodents
The acoustic startle reflex (ASR) that can be induced by a loud sound
stimulus can be used as a versatile tool to, e.g., estimate hearing thresholds
or identify subjective tinnitus percepts in rodents. These techniques are based
on the fact that the ASR amplitude can be suppressed by a pre-stimulus of
lower, non-startling intensity, an effect named pre-pulse inhibition (PPI). For
hearing threshold estimation, pure tone pre-stimuli of varying amplitudes are
presented before an intense noise burst serving as startle stimulus. The amount
of suppression of the ASR amplitude as a function of the pre-stimulus intensity
can be used as a behavioral correlate to determine the hearing ability. For
tinnitus assessment, the pure-tone pre-stimulus is replaced by a gap of silence
in a narrowband noise background, a paradigm termed GPIAS (gap-pre-pulse
inhibition of the acoustic startle response). A proper application of these
paradigms depend on a reliable measurement of the ASR amplitudes, an exact
stimulus presentation in terms of frequency and intensity. Here we introduce a
novel open source solution for the construction of a low-cost ASR setup for the
above mentioned purpose. The complete software for data acquisition and
stimulus presentation is written in Python 3.6 and is provided as an anaconda
package. Furthermore, we provide a construction plan for the sensory system
based on low-cost hardware components. Exemplary data show that the ratios
(1-PPI) of the pre and post trauma ASR amplitudes can be well described by a
lognormal distribution being in good accordance to previous studies with
already established setups. Hence, the open access solution described here will
help to further establish the ASR method in many laboratories and thus
facilitate and standardize research in animal models of tinnitus or hearing
loss.