The Brain on Low Power Architectures - Efficient Simulation of Cortical
  Slow Waves and Asynchronous States
Efficient brain simulation is a scientific grand challenge, a
parallel/distributed coding challenge and a source of requirements and
suggestions for future computing architectures. Indeed, the human brain
includes about 10^15 synapses and 10^11 neurons activated at a mean rate of
several Hz. Full brain simulation poses Exascale challenges even if simulated
at the highest abstraction level. The WaveScalES experiment in the Human Brain
Project (HBP) has the goal of matching experimental measures and simulations of
slow waves during deep-sleep and anesthesia and the transition to other brain
states. The focus is the development of dedicated large-scale
parallel/distributed simulation technologies. The ExaNeSt project designs an
ARM-based, low-power HPC architecture scalable to million of cores, developing
a dedicated scalable interconnect system, and SWA/AW simulations are included
among the driving benchmarks. At the joint between both projects is the INFN
proprietary Distributed and Plastic Spiking Neural Networks (DPSNN) simulation
engine. DPSNN can be configured to stress either the networking or the
computation features available on the execution platforms. The simulation
stresses the networking component when the neural net - composed by a
relatively low number of neurons, each one projecting thousands of synapses -
is distributed over a large number of hardware cores. When growing the number
of neurons per core, the computation starts to be the dominating component for
short range connections. This paper reports about preliminary performance
results obtained on an ARM-based HPC prototype developed in the framework of
the ExaNeSt project. Furthermore, a comparison is given of instantaneous power,
total energy consumption, execution time and energetic cost per synaptic event
of SWA/AW DPSNN simulations when executed on either ARM- or Intel-based server
platforms.