Control of Functional Connectivity in Cerebral Cortex by Basal Ganglia
  Mediated Synchronization
Since the earliest electroencephalography experiments, large scale
oscillations have been observed in the mammalian brain. In more recent studies
they have been identified not only in the cerebral cortex and thalamus, but
pervasively in the healthy basal ganglia. While correlations with stimuli,
behavior, and mental states have long been recognized, the precise function of
these oscillations has often been mysterious, particularly in the basal
ganglia. In this paper, I propose the basal ganglia mediated synchronization
model to help explain many of these correlated oscillatory phenomena, relating
stimulus-response and reinforcement mechanisms to associative synchrony
mechanisms. In this model, patterns of activity in cortex stimulate striatal
responses whose spike timing precisely reflects that prevailing in the input
pattern. These responses are then recirculated in closed and open loops,
chiefly via the thalamus, to the feedback-recipient layers of cortex, where
they selectively establish and reinforce effective connections by controlling
spike-timing-dependent gain. Corticostriatal and striatonigral conduction
delays are critical to this mechanism, and evidence suggests that these delays
are unusually long, and unusually varied, in arrangements that might facilitate
learning of useful time alignments. Structural arrangements in the basal
ganglia show further specialization for this role, with convergence in the
inputs from cortex, and divergence in many of the return paths to cortex, that
systematically reflect corticocortical anatomical connectivity. The basal
ganglia also target the dopaminergic, cholinergic, and serotonergic centers of
the brainstem and basal forebrain, and the reticular nucleus of the thalamus,
structures broadly implicated in the modulation of oscillatory network activity
and expressions of plasticity. The basal ganglia, by learning to coordinate
[...]