Study of movement coordination in human ensembles via a novel
  computer-based set-up
Movement coordination in human ensembles has been studied little in the
current literature. In the existing experimental works, situations where all
subjects are connected with each other through direct visual and auditory
coupling, and social interaction affects their coordination, have been
investigated. Here, we study coordination in human ensembles via a novel
computer-based set-up that enables individuals to coordinate each other's
motion from a distance so as to minimize the influence of social interaction.
The proposed platform makes it possible to implement different visual
interaction patterns among the players, so that participants take into
consideration the motion of a designated subset of the others. This allows the
evaluation of the exclusive effects on coordination of the structure of
interconnections among the players and their own dynamics. Our set-up enables
also the deployment of virtual players to investigate dyadic interaction
between a human and a virtual agent, as well as group synchronization in mixed
teams of human and virtual agents. We use this novel set-up to study
coordination both in dyads and in groups over different structures of
interconnections, with and without virtual agents. We find that, in dual
interaction, virtual players manage to interact with participants in a
human-like fashion, thus confirming findings in previous work. We also observe
that, in group interaction, the level of coordination among humans in the
absence of direct visual and auditory coupling depends on the structure of
interconnections among participants. This confirms, as recently suggested in
the literature, that different coordination levels are achieved over diverse
visual pairings in the presence and in the absence of social interaction. We
present preliminary experimental results on the effect on group coordination of
deploying virtual computer agents in the human ensemble.