Simple, Fast and Accurate Implementation of the Diffusion Approximation
  Algorithm for Stochastic Ion Channels with Multiple States
The phenomena that emerge from the interaction of the stochastic opening and
closing of ion channels (channel noise) with the non-linear neural dynamics are
essential to our understanding of the operation of the nervous system. The
effects that channel noise can have on neural dynamics are generally studied
using numerical simulations of stochastic models. Algorithms based on discrete
Markov Chains (MC) seem to be the most reliable and trustworthy, but even
optimized algorithms come with a non-negligible computational cost. Diffusion
Approximation (DA) methods use Stochastic Differential Equations (SDE) to
approximate the behavior of a number of MCs, considerably speeding up
simulation times. However, model comparisons have suggested that DA methods did
not lead to the same results as in MC modeling in terms of channel noise
statistics and effects on excitability. Recently, it was shown that the
difference arose because MCs were modeled with coupled activation subunits,
while the DA was modeled using uncoupled activation subunits. Implementations
of DA with coupled subunits, in the context of a specific kinetic scheme,
yielded similar results to MC. However, it remained unclear how to generalize
these implementations to different kinetic schemes, or whether they were faster
than MC algorithms. Additionally, a steady state approximation was used for the
stochastic terms, which, as we show here, can introduce significant
inaccuracies. We derived the SDE explicitly for any given ion channel kinetic
scheme. The resulting generic equations were surprisingly simple and
interpretable - allowing an easy and efficient DA implementation. The algorithm
was tested in a voltage clamp simulation and in two different current clamp
simulations, yielding the same results as MC modeling. Also, the simulation
efficiency of this DA method demonstrated considerable superiority over MC
methods.