Why early tactile speech aids may have failed: no perceptual integration
  of tactile and auditory signals
Tactile speech aids, though extensively studied in the 1980s and 90s, never
became a commercial success. A hypothesis to explain this failure might be that
it is difficult to obtain true perceptual integration of a tactile signal with
information from auditory speech: exploitation of tactile cues from a tactile
aid might require cognitive effort and so prevent speech understanding at the
high rates typical of everyday speech. To test this hypothesis, we attempted to
create true perceptual integration of tactile with auditory information in what
might be considered the simplest situation encountered by a hearing-impaired
listener. We created an auditory continuum between the syllables BA and VA, and
trained participants to associate BA to one tactile stimulus VA to another
tactile stimulus. After training, we tested if auditory discrimination along
the continuum between the two syllables could be biased by incongruent tactile
stimulation. We found that such a bias occurred only when the tactile stimulus
was above its previously measured tactile discrimination threshold. Such a
pattern is compatible with the idea that the effect is due to a cognitive or
decisional strategy, rather than to truly perceptual integration. We therefore
ran a further study, where we created a tactile version of the McGurk effect.
We extensively trained two Subjects over six days to associate four recorded
auditory syllables with four corresponding apparent motion tactile patterns. In
a subsequent test, we presented stimulation that was either congruent or
incongruent with the learnt association, and asked Subjects to report the
syllable they perceived. We found no analog to the McGurk effect. These
findings strengthen our hypothesis according to which tactile aids failed
because integration of tactile cues with auditory speech occurred at a
cognitive or decisional level, rather than truly at a perceptual level