Characterization of Large Scale Functional Brain Networks During
  Ketamine-Medetomidine Anesthetic Induction
Several experiments evidence that specialized brain regions functionally
interact and reveal that the brain processes and integrates information in a
specific and structured manner. Networks can be used to model brain functional
activities constituting a way to characterize and quantify this structured form
of organization. Reports state that different physiological states or even
diseases that affect the central nervous system may be associated to
alterations on those networks, that might reflect in graphs of different
architectures. However, the relation of their structure to different states or
conditions of the organism is not well comprehended. Thus, experiments that
involve the estimation of functional neural networks of subjects exposed to
different controlled conditions are of great relevance. Within this context,
this research has sought to model large scale functional brain networks during
an anesthetic induction process. The experiment was based on intra-cranial
recordings of neural activities of an old world macaque of the species Macaca
fuscata. Neural activity was recorded during a Ketamine-Medetomidine anesthetic
induction process. Networks were serially estimated in time intervals of five
seconds. Changes were observed in various networks properties within about one
and a half minutes after the administration of the anesthetics. These changes
reveal the occurrence of a transition on the networks architecture. During
general anesthesia a reduction in the functional connectivity and network
integration capabilities were verified in both local and global levels. It was
also observed that the brain shifted to a highly specific and dynamic state.
The results bring empirical evidence and report the relation of the induced
state of anesthesia to properties of functional networks, thus, they contribute
for the elucidation of some new aspects of neural correlates of consciousness.