Modeling the relationship between regional activation and functional
  connectivity during wakefulness and sleep
Global brain activity self-organizes into discrete patterns characterized by
distinct behavioral observables and modes of information processing. The human
thalamocortical system is a densely connected network where local neural
activation reciprocally influences coordinated collective dynamics. We
introduce a semi-empirical model to investigate the relationship between
regional activation and long-range functional connectivity in the different
brain states visited during the natural wake-sleep cycle. Our model combines
functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data, in vivo estimates of
structural connectivity, and anatomically-informed priors that constrain the
independent variation of regional activation. As expected, priors based on
functionally coherent networks resulted in the best fit between empirical and
simulated brain activity. We show that sleep progressively divided the cortex
into regions presenting opposite dynamical behavior: frontoparietal regions
approached a bifurcation towards local oscillatory dynamics, while sensorimotor
regions presented stable dynamics governed by noise. In agreement with human
electrophysiological experiments, sleep onset induced subcortical deactivation
and uncoupling, which was subsequently reversed for deeper stages. Finally, we
introduced external forcing of variable intensity to simulate external
perturbations, and identifiedthe key regionsespecially relevant for the
recovery of wakefulness from deep sleep. Our model represents sleep as a state
where long-range decoupling and regional deactivation coexist with the latent
capacity for a rapid transition towards wakefulness. The mechanistic insights
provided by our simulations allow the in silico parametric exploration of such
transitions in terms of external perturbations, with potential applications for
the control of physiological and pathological brain states.