Artificial Intelligence Framework for Simulating Clinical
  Decision-Making: A Markov Decision Process Approach
In the modern healthcare system, rapidly expanding costs/complexity, the
growing myriad of treatment options, and exploding information streams that
often do not effectively reach the front lines hinder the ability to choose
optimal treatment decisions over time. The goal in this paper is to develop a
general purpose (non-disease-specific) computational/artificial intelligence
(AI) framework to address these challenges. This serves two potential
functions: 1) a simulation environment for exploring various healthcare
policies, payment methodologies, etc., and 2) the basis for clinical artificial
intelligence - an AI that can think like a doctor. This approach combines
Markov decision processes and dynamic decision networks to learn from clinical
data and develop complex plans via simulation of alternative sequential
decision paths while capturing the sometimes conflicting, sometimes synergistic
interactions of various components in the healthcare system. It can operate in
partially observable environments (in the case of missing observations or data)
by maintaining belief states about patient health status and functions as an
online agent that plans and re-plans. This framework was evaluated using real
patient data from an electronic health record. Such an AI framework easily
outperforms the current treatment-as-usual (TAU) case-rate/fee-for-service
models of healthcare (Cost per Unit Change: $189 vs. $497) while obtaining a
30-35% increase in patient outcomes. Tweaking certain model parameters further
enhances this advantage, obtaining roughly 50% more improvement for roughly
half the costs. Given careful design and problem formulation, an AI simulation
framework can approximate optimal decisions even in complex and uncertain
environments. Future work is described that outlines potential lines of
research and integration of machine learning algorithms for personalized
medicine.