Continuation of Nesterov's Smoothing for Regression with Structured
  Sparsity in High-Dimensional Neuroimaging
Predictive models can be used on high-dimensional brain images for diagnosis
of a clinical condition. Spatial regularization through structured sparsity
offers new perspectives in this context and reduces the risk of overfitting the
model while providing interpretable neuroimaging signatures by forcing the
solution to adhere to domain-specific constraints. Total Variation (TV)
enforces spatial smoothness of the solution while segmenting predictive regions
from the background. We consider the problem of minimizing the sum of a smooth
convex loss, a non-smooth convex penalty (whose proximal operator is known) and
a wide range of possible complex, non-smooth convex structured penalties such
as TV or overlapping group Lasso. Existing solvers are either limited in the
functions they can minimize or in their practical capacity to scale to
high-dimensional imaging data. Nesterov's smoothing technique can be used to
minimize a large number of non-smooth convex structured penalties but
reasonable precision requires a small smoothing parameter, which slows down the
convergence speed. To benefit from the versatility of Nesterov's smoothing
technique, we propose a first order continuation algorithm, CONESTA, which
automatically generates a sequence of decreasing smoothing parameters. The
generated sequence maintains the optimal convergence speed towards any globally
desired precision. Our main contributions are: To propose an expression of the
duality gap to probe the current distance to the global optimum in order to
adapt the smoothing parameter and the convergence speed. We provide a
convergence rate, which is an improvement over classical proximal gradient
smoothing methods. We demonstrate on both simulated and high-dimensional
structural neuroimaging data that CONESTA significantly outperforms many
state-of-the-art solvers in regard to convergence speed and precision.