Validation of Soft Classification Models using Partial Class
  Memberships: An Extended Concept of Sensitivity & Co. applied to the Grading
  of Astrocytoma Tissues
We use partial class memberships in soft classification to model uncertain
labelling and mixtures of classes. Partial class memberships are not restricted
to predictions, but may also occur in reference labels (ground truth, gold
standard diagnosis) for training and validation data.
  Classifier performance is usually expressed as fractions of the confusion
matrix, such as sensitivity, specificity, negative and positive predictive
values. We extend this concept to soft classification and discuss the bias and
variance properties of the extended performance measures. Ambiguity in
reference labels translates to differences between best-case, expected and
worst-case performance. We show a second set of measures comparing expected and
ideal performance which is closely related to regression performance, namely
the root mean squared error RMSE and the mean absolute error MAE.
  All calculations apply to classical crisp classification as well as to soft
classification (partial class memberships and/or one-class classifiers). The
proposed performance measures allow to test classifiers with actual borderline
cases. In addition, hardening of e.g. posterior probabilities into class labels
is not necessary, avoiding the corresponding information loss and increase in
variance.
  We implement the proposed performance measures in the R package
"softclassval", which is available from CRAN and at
http://softclassval.r-forge.r-project.org.
  Our reasoning as well as the importance of partial memberships for
chemometric classification is illustrated by a real-word application:
astrocytoma brain tumor tissue grading (80 patients, 37000 spectra) for finding
surgical excision borders. As borderline cases are the actual target of the
analytical technique, samples which are diagnosed to be borderline cases must
be included in the validation.